docs(migration): update information about local file source (#1028)
SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector: docs/migration.md

### Fields

> Fields in the Opentelemetry Collector can be added with the `collector_fields` property of [Sumo Logic Extension][sumologicextension].

Author: Yes, this is equivalent of Installed Collector Collector configuration

##### Collection should begin

> The OpenTelemetry Collector substitution for this Installed Collector option require manual timestamp parsing.
> Then you can use [Filter Processor][filterprocessor] to filter out logs before specific date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector substitution for this Installed Collector option requires manual timestamp parsing.
Then you can use [Filter Processor][filterprocessor] to filter out logs before a specific date.
```

##### Collection should begin

The OpenTelemetry Collector substitution for this Installed Collector option is complex,
as the following steps needs to be performed:

- reading logs using [Filelog Receiver][filelogreceiver]

> - parsing timestamp from the logs using [Logs Transform Processor][logstransformprocessor]

Reviewer 2: Isn't it possible to do all this in one step using the Filter processor with [OTTL](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/filterprocessor#ottl)? The specific example of only logs from 2023 would be something like:

```yaml
processors:
  filter:
    logs:
      log_record:
      - 'Int(Substring(body, 0, 4)) >= 2023'
```

Even if we want the condition to be more complex, I believe we should be able to do away without adding additional attributes and removing in a separate step?

Author: damn, I was scrooling README and stopped on `expr` :facepalm:. We definitely should use OTTL in filterprocessor if it support its. I used simple example, but can easily imagine equivalent:
`let's take logs from 2022-12-04 13:13:15`

Author: refactored

- marking logs to be removed using [Transform Processor][transformprocessor] processor
- remove logs using [Filter Processor][filterprocessor]

Let's consider the following example. We want to get logs from `tmp/logs.log` which are at least from 2023 year:

- `tmp/logs.log`

  ```text
  2020-04-01 10:12:14 Log from 2020
  2021-01-02 12:13:54 Log from 2021
  2022-03-07 11:15:29 Log from 2022
  2023-01-02 10:37:12 Log from 2023
  ```

- `config.yaml` (only essential parts)

  ```yaml
  receivers:
    filelog/log source:
      include:
      - tmp/logs.log
      # - ...
      ## Adds file path log.file.path attribute, which will be used further in pipeline
      include_file_path: true
      ## We would like to read from beginning, as we can choose only between end and beginning
      start_at: beginning
      # ...
  processors:
    ## The following processor parses out the timestamp from `tmp/logs.log`

>     logstransform/extract timestamp:

Reviewer: Wouldn't this parsing be easier to do in filelog receiver itself?

Author: It was more logical for me to put it separetely when I wasn't aware that filterprocessor can into OTTL

      operators:
      - type: regex_parser
        ## Applies only to tmp/logs.log file
        if: 'attributes["log.file.path"] == "tmp/logs.log"'
        ## Extracts timestamp to timestamp_field using regex parser
        regex: '^(?P<timestamp_field>\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2} \d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}).*'
        timestamp:
          parse_from: attributes.timestamp_field
          layout: '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S'
      ## cleanup timestamp_field
      - type: remove
        field: attributes.timestamp_field
    ## Marks to remove logs older than Sat Dec 31 2022 23:00:00 GMT+0000
    transform/mark older:
      log_statements:
      - context: log
        statements:
        # 1672527600000000000 ns is equal to Sat Dec 31 2022 23:00:00 GMT+0000

>         - set(attributes["to_remove"], "true") where time_unix_nano < 1672527600000000000

Reviewer 3: is this going to add a new attribute to the log record attributes map?
https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/pdata/plog#LogRecord.Attributes

    ## Remove logs which has been marked to be removed
    filter/remove older:
      logs:
        exclude:

>           match_type: strict

Reviewer: You can use ottl directly in filterprocessor now: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/filterprocessor/README.md#ottl

#### Fields

There are multiple ways to set fields in OpenTelemetry Collector

- For fields which are going to be the same for all data points and metrics,
  you should use `collector_fields` in [Sumo Logic Extension][sumologicextension].

  For example, the following snippet configures two fields, `cloud.availability_zone` and `k8s.cluster.name`:

  ```yaml
  extensions:
    sumologic:
      collector_fields:
        cloud.availability_zone: zone-1
        k8s.cluster.name: my-cluster
  ```

- For fields, which should be set for specific data, you should use [Transform Processor][transformprocessor].

>   For example, the following snippet configures two fields, `cloud.availability_zone` and `k8s.cluster.name`:

Reviewer 3: I think the example below isn't setting those fields. Also, does Transform processor add attributes to the log record?

Author: fixed that with changing `context` to `resource`
